TITLE: Choosing courses for freshman year
SOURCE: https://www.reddit.com/r/Colby/comments/n4v3ml/
TYPE: reddit_thread
DATE: 2021-05

POST: Hi guys, I will be attending Colby this Fall! I haven’t decided my major yet, but Im considering Math and CS. Is there any interesting course that you recommend taking during my first year at school? Also, how many clubs should I join so as to balance between schoolwork and social life? Thank you

COMMENT: I have a few pieces of advice regarding freshman year class selection: 1) TAKE THREE CLASSES IN THE FALL—I cannot stress this enough. By taking three classes your first semester you’ll have enough time to engage with the entirely new process of college. I dropped my fourth class after about a month and my quality of life skyrocketed. I was able to actually talk with my professors, learn more, hang out with my friends, go to more club meetings, and party. Now partying might not be your thing, but a smaller workload your first semester allows you to engage in things you love outside of school. I wish somebody had told me to do this earlier. 2) Don’t speed run your major—you may love math and CS (me too I’m majoring is CS and Government) but that doesn’t mean you have to take ALL THE CLASSES RIGHT NOW. Slow down a bit. Smell the proverbial flowers. Try to take at least one weird class every semester. Intro to the Old Testament?? Fuck it. Premodern art history!! Why not? 3) There’s no correct path—you’re a completely different human today than you will be after your freshman year. It’s okay to be uncertain about majors and clubs. Just play it by ear. Take the classes that sound cool and join all the clubs that tickle your fancy. You can always change your mind. Best of luck on your journey :)

COMMENT: Definitely take CS 151 if you're interested in that. I was a math/CS double major and it was great.

COMMENT: Taking three courses logically means I'll have to take five courses in one of my other semesters right? Doesn't sound like a bad trade off. I'm so used to classes being assigned and whatnot that sounds like a strange thing to do but I like it!

COMMENT: Hello! I'm a math major who's considering a CS minor, so I have abit to say about this. I highly recommend taking MA161 (Honors Calc) in the fall, and no other math class for now. There's many reason for this: 1. It's a tremendously fun class 2. It is proof-based, and as such the only real math class you can really take now. This adds to the fun: it's based on Spivak's calculus, which is sort of the bible of undergrad calculus built from the ground up... and I mean from the ground up! You'll learn the basic building blocks of math. 3. It's hard. This is a good thing: it's a little less hard than other math classes, but it will give you a good idea of what you're in for. If you can do it, you can probably survive the math major. But for many, their first interaction with really rigorous college-level math is too much. I recommend having that interaction early on, and seeing if you still like math. 4. While it's hard, there's no prerequisites. The professor knows you have never done this kind of math before. It's doable. Most importantly, it's topics that you already have an intuitive (but not rigorous!) understanding of; learning how to do proofs while also learning Linear Algebra or Abstract Algebra, which are likely the next two courses you'd take... is a lot harder. 5. It actually fulfills MA274 requirement if you complete both 161-162 with good grades. The alternative is to take normal calc if you need it, and then MA274 (Mathematical Reasoning) as soon as possible. But once again, undergrad math is quite different from high-school math. It's a different approach, different topics, and a whole lot more rigour. So trying 261 is a good way to get a taste of what's in for you... it's the perfect combination of manageable hardness and exposure to mathematical beauty. For CS I have a lot less to say. I actually skipped 151 because I already knew how to code and jumped straight to CS231. 151/231 are the two classes that basically everything else requires, so you can't really do any of the other ones for now. One more thing: don't be too afraid to try higher level classes in your first year. They can be challenging, but also really interesting. I ended up taking a 200 level history class fall freshman year and that was really fun and manageable. Don't let the number frighten you too much! But also don't take 4 classes all 200-level. Balance a bit. This especially applies if you take MA261.

COMMENT: I actually don't know if I recommend taking three classes only in your starting semester. I did four and it was fine; but regardless of whether you can actually survive on four, dropping a class is super easy and pain-free for freshmen, even as the semester progresses. So taking four to see if you can handle it, and then dropping immediately if you can't... is a reasonably good plan. Anyway, I'd talk it over with your advisor.

COMMENT: That's actually not necessarily true. You'll have to take at least 3 JanPlan courses, many of which are 3-credit. So you can easily take 3 classes "for free" one semester. That being said, I recommend doing that a bit later when the courses in your major become harder... Otherwise, taking 5 classes to make up for lost time is really hard and I do not recommend doing it. Unless you choose really easy classes you're in for a bad time...

COMMENT: I’m also planning to begin with MA161 to challenge myself a little. How did you skip CS151? Did you submit AP score or any certificate?

COMMENT: If you have an AP score or anything like that, email the chair (she's great) and ask what to do. I also second taking MA 161.

COMMENT: Who is teaching 161/2 these days? That's crazy that 162 counts for 274 now. I took those both simultaneously.

COMMENT: In my opinion, the rationale for taking three classes off the get go is the same for taking three when they’re all hard. The main difference is that life is just hard first semester freshman year. Though your advice is true—five classes is not particularly fun.

COMMENT: No certificate needed. I emailed Bruce Maxwell, who was the chair a couple yars ago, and told him that I thought I knew enough to skip CS151. He just made me complete a quick placement test; I think I could choose between python and java. Pretty easy if you know what you're doing...
