TITLE: Best language?
SOURCE: https://www.reddit.com/r/Colby/comments/14rqze0/
TYPE: reddit_thread
DATE: 2023-07

POST: Which language program at Colby has the best professors and experience overall? I'm thinking of Spanish and Chinese in particular, but am open to anything!

COMMENT: FYI I’ve heard that people have had very poor experiences with the class and assignment formats for Spanish. I skipped my language requirement, so I cannot say for sure, but I’ve heard from at least 4 people. The main issue being that almost all of the assignments are online and graded automatically (?) so they look for extremely specific wording, and the assessments are online too. I don’t know how they handle that. But I also know a Spanish major who is traveling everywhere and he’s had a great experience! Haven’t heard anything about Chinese! Think it is a much smaller department. Be prepared because I think the first class is like 5 or 6 credits, which is a lot of your schedule.

COMMENT: Oh, the best things I’ve heard are from the extremely small Greek department. But I know that’s not a super common language, so that might not be in your interests

COMMENT: I did spanish and i had a good experience but you have to spend like 300 dollars total for online textbooks which sucks dick. I heard good things about the Japanese department. Chinese and russian is hard. Dont know anything about the rest.

COMMENT: Chinese is great. Professors are amazing (I’m biased). I love Prof Zhang. If you take it with friends, I’m sure you’ll have a blast trying to talk to each other 😂

COMMENT: Idk about you but if your native language isn’t English, you can test out of the language requirement. It requires 3 semester to complete and honestly a hassle. I tested out with my own native language and it was so easy. However if u do want to learn Spanish and Chinese, go for it!

COMMENT: Can you elaborate on the bad things you've heard about the spanish department?

COMMENT: How are the teachers in the spanish department? Also, how is the rigor?

COMMENT: Sure! Again, I haven’t taken the classes myself so you may benefit from emailing a professor and asking about their class structures for more accurate information (it’s a small college, it’s perfectly fine to reach out to a professor). What I have heard is that it feels like teaching yourself because pretty much everything (major exams, assignments, textbooks) is online — this has felt isolating for some and difficult to learn from. You have to pay for this specific software on which you complete everything — so you cannot find a free way to get the materials. And, in general, people get frustrated with how the online workbooks function. People I know haven’t felt they could connect with the professor and felt that they could not get help outside of class when they did not understand the material. And this can snowball because (some have considered) the workload to be extreme at times.

COMMENT: This is not to put you off the Spanish department or the classes entirely! This is just some opinions I’ve heard in rants from my friends — and, people generally only talk about the negative parts of classes when they are hanging out with their friends because it’s more interesting/relatable conversation. I do know one person specifically who is a Spanish major and loves it. And, the benefit of the Spanish department is cool travel opportunities! Honestly, what I would suggest is reaching out to a prof for your intro class and asking for a syllabus or to speak with them about if you would be a good fit for their class :). They very well may respond! If you are still worried one way or the other when classes begin about which language to take, you can email professors and ask to sit in their class for a day during the first week. Say that you are a freshman, you are interested in multiple languages including theirs, and you would love the opportunity to see if you’d like to add their class. (They may say no, but I’ve done this before with other classes and had success). If you like the vibe of one intro class over another, you can switch them during add/drop. :)

COMMENT: Rigor wise its pretty light. Its annoying that you have to spend 4 days a week on class and theres homework everyday but it really isnt much work. Most teachers are good but some should be avoided. I recommend taking classes with cohen, hankin, or bollo. Those 3 made spanish really fun and easy.
