TITLE: Can i get some advice?
SOURCE: https://www.reddit.com/r/Colby/comments/1es4ej8/
TYPE: reddit_thread
DATE: 2024-08

POST: Hi guys! I am an international highschool student, fall 2024-2025, i really want to go to Colby College for university progam. Can you give me some advice or tips? how to got in to Colby 🥹🥹🥹🥹🥹

COMMENT: Apply ed. Colby has an incredibly low acceptance rate so unless you have the top grades and a top sat score don’t get your hopes too high. Also applying without financial aid can help your application especially for international students.

COMMENT: But I heard that Colby does not accept applications from Vietnamese students for the ED round, and I'm quite confused by this information.

COMMENT: i really worry about this, bc i'm from VN and someone tell me Colby doesn't accepted VN student for ED

COMMENT: Legit same advice as everyone else. Good app. Good EC. and the rest is luck

COMMENT: from a student who got into colby last year, and he's from vn

COMMENT: I mean unless that person got solid proof, I would avoid believing in that. It’s kinda crazy that they would be restricting only students from VN specifically in the case of ED. I mean if they got in, how did they find out about this so called theory?

COMMENT: oh, thank you. should i apply colby for ED? i obsess with large green grass and many things in this college 🥰🥰🥰

COMMENT: Up to you. Ask around diff people about their experiences. See if Colby is really for you. If it ends up being that way, sure go for ED.

COMMENT: ED will definitely help your chances, but make sure you can afford Colby. Use the net price calculator to get an idea of what you would be expected to pay. Make sure you can tell a good story that weaves your passions/activities together.

COMMENT: Honestly, everyone is saying that you need to have a perfect app but from my experience I disagree. It definitely helps to have strong stats but me personally I had a 3.6 and a 1250 and I got in as a Bunche scholar through rd. I think you should really focus on the activities section on your common app and show as much demonstrated interest as you can. It is true that the majority of colby has an incredible stats but don’t let that scare you, there’s always hope.

COMMENT: Colby loves anyone who can pay full price.
