TITLE: Is the social life here bad?
SOURCE: https://www.reddit.com/r/Colby/comments/1363wjz/
TYPE: reddit_thread
DATE: 2023-05

POST: I know a ton of people who really enjoy Colby, but there are also a lot who seem to dislike it. What has your experience been like with the social life?

COMMENT: It really depends what you’re looking for. I was a part of a few groups on campus and was a part of a friend group from freshman year and I had a great time. Granted my favorite parts of the social scene were smaller scale hanging out with friends or parties where I knew most of the people there. If you’re looking for a culture of going out to lots of bars and clubs, that isn’t really very possible in Waterville, but it is a pretty social campus and if you find a group that works for you, you can have a great time with it. One of the benefits of everyone living on campus is that there’s usually a fair amount going on on campus

COMMENT: Please correct me if I’m wrong but I don’t think anything I said was fat-phobic? You may need to re-calibrate your bot’s parameters?

COMMENT: Ok, thank you for the info! Would you say it would be hard to fit in to the social scene if I didn't want to drink? Also, how "diverse" would you say the school is socially; is there a group for everyone?

COMMENT: As far as drinking goes: there are a lot of people who drink. If you’re fine with that, you’re fine. If you don’t want to have your social events involve drinking, that’s completely understandable, but just know that’s not the default. Colby has substance free housing, which can foster some great friend groups, in my experience. I also found that as people got more settled in college, social scenes moved away from parties and (slightly) more toward hanging out or doing activities with friends. There’s plenty that happens on campus that’s not centered around drinking, but especially as a first year, you may need to look around a bit to find it. As far as diversity goes, I’m definitely not the best person to answer this question, as a straight cis white guy. I’d say there’s a fair amount of diversity of sexual orientation, probably a bit less so in terms of race. I think people can find supportive communities within those groups but campus is definitely fairly white. In my experience, nearly everyone finds a group that they feel comfortable with, but that isn’t to say that both race and sexual identity are always easy identities to hold, even at a left-leaning campus like Colby. Hopefully others can share their experiences about their time on campus.

COMMENT: How about diversity of interests? I'm not really sporty or outdoorsy, nor do I want to drink. I am 100% ok with others drinking though. Will it be hard for me to fit in socially?

COMMENT: No, sports teams do serve as the basis for a lot of social groups but there are a lot of different ways to meet and spend time with people. I’d recommend trying out some clubs or other campus groups, going to dorm and campus events, and talking to people you take classes with all as ways to meet people. From there you can definitely find people who are looking for all different types of social scenes. During your first week alone you’ll meet a bunch of new people from all different corners of campus
