TITLE: Banned Items at Colby Dorms?
SOURCE: https://www.reddit.com/r/Colby/comments/znvc3i/
TYPE: reddit_thread
DATE: 2022-12

POST: Hi! I'm going to Colby next year and I'm anxious about the cuisine, so I've chosen to cook for myself. I recently received a gift card and would like to use it to purchase culinary items for my dorm next year, but I'm not sure what is allowed. There are nothing online art this except for an old Colby Sawyer College Packing list that says anything over 1200 watts or 15 amps isn't allowed. Is this true? Is there an official list of banned items?

COMMENT: We're not Colby Sawyer lol. Also, banned items are only contraband if you get caught with them. What do you want to bring/buy?

COMMENT: The logo looks so similar my bad 😭😭. Rn I’m looking at a 3.2 cubic in mini fridge, a rice cooker, an all in one microwave w/the energy use of 1400 watts, and an electric kettle.

COMMENT: It might trip your fuse. One year my roommate and me had a lot of stuff using power and we constantly tripped the fuse and had to call facilities.

COMMENT: There’s a partial list of a disallowed items, but no complete banned list or complete allowed list. I have all the stuff you mentioned except for a rice cooker. I’ve never tripped a fuse, so as long as you use the rice cooker at different times or a different outlet you’ll be fine.

COMMENT: i have a rice cooker and it’s totally fine!

COMMENT: you'll get a list of what they recommend your bring later in the summer. I don't recall there being much you can't have in terms of appliances. I know the big things were just no weapons. I wouldn't worry about it all right now. You will get a lot more information closer to when orientation starts.

COMMENT: Will do, thanks! Btw does Colby have heaters and/or air conditioners in the dorms?

COMMENT: Heaters, yes. Air conditioners are in the Jonson pond houses only. That being said, you’ll want an air conditioner for about two weeks total. Just make sure to bring a fan!

COMMENT: When I attended we had working fireplaces in Pepper…. We didn’t have “appliances”.

COMMENT: Yeah I don’t think we’ll be allowed to use that so

COMMENT: Have a great time, it’s certainly not the school I attended, but it’s a great education and a beautiful campus. I like to visit the Art Museum when I’m back in Maine. Congratulations on you admission.
