TITLE: Q&A for Prospective students:
SOURCE: https://www.reddit.com/r/Colby/comments/tq60un/
TYPE: reddit_thread
DATE: 2022-03

POST: Hi everyone, I recently committed to Colby College class of 2026 and I cannot wait to be on campus this fall!! I have a couple of questions about life and academics at Colby: \- What's your favorite thing about your Colby experience so far? \- What are some things that you feel the school can do better? \- Do you have any Colby-specific advice for incoming freshmen? \- What is a course that you would recommend? \- How would you describe/rate CS and Government Major? \- For Jan Plan, it seems like a lot of people can get (international) internships as freshmen. Is it really the case? Also, is Winter Break 10 days long?:P \- Sports: So I know Colby is D3 but I am not sure about how competitive the teams are, especially Colby soccer. I have seen some recruits as well on the Colby 2026 insta. I was wondering if there are tryouts for non-recruits as well? How big is the commitment for students athlete? \- Is there anything else that I should know coming in? Thank you in advance for helping me. Go Mules!!! Also, other incoming freshmen, feel free to post your questions here as well:)

COMMENT: For JanPlan: I think the rules still in place are that every student is expected to complete 3 on-campus JanPlans during their time at Colby, with Freshman year being one of them. People have been able to propose personal alternatives to these, but it does take some effort and the school can say no. Of the “on-campus” courses though, some involve travel. One for example spends two weeks on campus studying geology then goes to Bermuda for the second half of Jan Plan. Another I think studies literature then travels to India. So it is possible to get off campus for January but to do so as a freshman will require you to get permission early on once you’re on campus. Winter Break usually lasts from mid-late December until the first few days of January. Looks like next years is Dec 20 - Jan 3. It can vary a bit though because you can leave campus as soon as you finish your last exam in the Fall, so your exams could be done at the beginning of the exam period (which runs Dec 14-19 next year) or at the end. Unfortunately the exam schedule for each class can shift a bit until mid-Fall so it’s hard to know until then

COMMENT: Oh, thank you! Is it common for freshman to get internships during their Jan Plan? Or, I mean, what does the typical Jan Plan look like?:) Thank you!!

COMMENT: So internships aren’t considered an on-campus Jan Plan so it’s not common for first years to take that option, and they’d have to get it okayed beforehand. It’s is more common in later years. Typically, most students take the school’s Jan Plan courses. These are more intensive than a normal course but you only take one at a time and they typically run 3-4 days a week. They often dive into fun or unusual topics and the school runs a lot of other programming during January, which overall makes January a lot of fun. During my Jan Plans, I took one class that was just for fun, one that was an obscure topic in my major, and one that fulfilled a distribution requirement, so there’s a lot of variation available

COMMENT: For Colby specific advice: take classes based on interest level in the topic, not on who the professor is, especially for upper level classes. I’ve shot myself in the foot too many times taking a class just bc I heard good things about the prof. At colby, I’ve found it tough to stay engaged in classes I don’t really care about, which equally harms my grades and learning. That being said, if it’s the same class taught by different professors e.g. political theory, take the class with the “better” professor.

COMMENT: Thank you, I was about to pick History of the Middle East (or something similar) to fulfill my history credit. I heard the prof is very engaging and tells a lot of stories:)) I will definitely reconsider though. How would you describe the workload at Colby? Like, how much time do you usually spend on homework and preparing for class?

COMMENT: Thank you so much for the info!! This is very helpful:)) I cannot wait till August.

COMMENT: It’s hard to pin down how much time I “usually” spend doing homework in a given week due to the nature of my majors. In the beginning of the semester I’d say about 10-15 hours per week, mostly on reading. After about the 4th week it picks up a bit with more papers, and by the end of the semester I’d be putting in 25ish hours a week working on term papers/studying for exams. It might not seem like all that much in terms of raw hours, but the work here is typically incredibly mentally draining. After only a few hours I usually need an extended break. A note on Middle Eastern History- it has met at 8am for the past few years, which could be an issue for a lot of people. Also, I’m realizing that you might not know exactly what you’re interested in, so maybe going off of professors isn’t the worst idea for the first few semesters.

COMMENT: Oh, I hope I would be able to manage the work load. I have been at home for 2 years during my gap year so I will need to get back to being extra organized. Oh wow 8am classes rip. The topic do sound interesting though and I think that course would help me understand current events much better so I am down for it. Thank you!!

COMMENT: Can i ask about you? How many other schools did you consider? Are you going to college right after highschool? Do you have any worries? Questions about financial aid?

COMMENT: Oh, sure no worries. To provide context, I applied as an international gap year student this year. I was class of 2020 in high school. I previously applied to Colby in 2020 but got waitlisted. I was so lucky this time around. And I applied to 22 schools and got into 7 but picking Colby was an easy choice, both cause I see myself fitting into the environment here as well as financially. For me, I have been mentally preparing myself for the past 2 years while seeing all my friends going off to college so no, I don’t really have any major concerns or worries. I have lived away from my parents ever since I was 12, only coming home for my summer breaks and gap year so I am used to being on the move and living in dorms. I went to a boarding school in the US btw. I consider myself a little introverted and I can sometimes get self conscious around new people (worried about making a good impression). That’s something I am worried about coming into a new environment at Colby:) Sorry this was poorly written and quite disorganized but I hope I answer all your questions:))

COMMENT: Cool! I hope you have a good time and finish when you intend too

COMMENT: Hi there! I'm currently taking History of the Modern Middle East. It's a fascinating class, especially at this point in the semester, as we're now getting into the creation of Israel and post-WWII content. It is indeed held at 8am, but I prefer early classes, so it doesn't bother me :) One thing about this course, however... this is by far the more work-heavy and demanding class I have ever taken in my life. Tuner is NOT shy in assigning reading, and expects a lot from the students in his class. I've been doing very well in the class, but it is far from easy.

COMMENT: Thank you for your insights. I will definitely take it into my consideration when choosing my courses.

COMMENT: Hello! Just wanted to say that I will be there in fall too - I will be the new Italian language assistant and I’m freaking out lol thank you for your questions, I will eagerly look at the answers! Best of luck!

COMMENT: Thank you so much!! Wishing you the best of luck as well:) cannot wait to see everyone on campus soon

COMMENT: Hi I also just committed to Colby and I was wondering if anyone here could give advice on dorms and and pros and cons of each ( particularly substance free housing versus non-substance free housing)

COMMENT: I also committed too!! DM me so I can give you my insta or snap or something!! Also what is the @ of colby 2026?
