TITLE: Questions for Colby students / alumni :))
SOURCE: https://www.reddit.com/r/Colby/comments/txeni4/
TYPE: reddit_thread
DATE: 2022-04

POST: Hi all, I’m thinking very seriously about attending Colby, and was hoping I could get some opinions from those that went here: - what is the social life like? For example, what do people do for fun? Do most people have large groups of friends or small groups? - what did you have the hardest time adjusting to when you arrived at Colby? - how much harder is the Colby curriculum compared to your high school curriculum? - are most people extroverted or introverted? - what did you wish you knew as a freshman? Any advice for incoming students? If anyone can provide any insight at all, I would be most grateful!

COMMENT: Social life is very party oriented. There are large groups and small groups but i think small groups of friends are more common. Like 10-12ish Hardest thing to adjust was adapting to a consistent schedule. Colby curriculum is just slightly harder than high school. But if you abuse TA hours and Office Hours the classes are very doable. My advice for freshman is to meet as many people as you can. This school is only 2000 people in population you really have a small sample size to work with when meeting people who could be your friends for life. Also dont sign up for regular housing choose substance free or healthy colby. Living in hillside is hazardous to physical health im not kidding. My final advice is look for better schools lol this schools only saving grace is its reputation and academics everything else is kinda subpar for a school that has 1 billion to spend.

COMMENT: Is it really that bad lmao Can I ask what specifically you don’t like about Colby?

COMMENT: Food quality is ass. Its gotten better but itll likely revert. Wifi fails often. There is almost nothing to do outside the campus. Fastfood options are limited. Entertainment is limited. Clubs are in small amount. Since its a small school in the middle of no where opportunities to engage in campus activities are limited. Sports teams do not win anything school pride is a little weak. this place is improving and there are cool things about this school but there are better options.

COMMENT: Alright, I see. Thanks for your answers! It kind of sounds like the high school school I already attend 😂 If you don’t mind one more question, do you think your opinion is pervasive on campus? Or is this more of an unpopular opinion?

COMMENT: For social life I’d say a lot of people tend to form friend groups in at least one of the following areas: your dorm (less often but it happens, especially freshman year), your classes (especially as you start focusing on a major), clubs/teams. These friend groups tend to overlap in many places, and you might find yours shift a fair amount year to year. You’ll also probably meet a bunch of people in the first few weeks, which can easily play a part in who you spend time with. Socially, friend groups will often meet up for meals, study together where applicable, maybe go to events on campus or travel somewhere on weekends, host varying sizes of get-togethers/parties. On a typical weekend night there will be a bunch of parties going on on campus, and in the warmer weather, they can spill outside we’re it’s easier to mingle with a bunch of people. If that’s not your style, some friend groups get together to play games together, go out for dinner, etc. Sometimes my friends and I would find an open classroom and watch a movie or play jackbox or something if we weren’t in a big party mood. If you’re looking for night life off campus though, Waterville is not really the place. One thing I’d recommend if you’re looking to get off campus: some clubs like the outing club will have trips running on weekends, where a group of students can go on a hike/walk/snowshoe etc, so it can be a nice resource to take advantage of. Like another poster said, sports aren’t huge spectator gatherings, hockey would get the closest though.

COMMENT: Also to balance out the other comment, I honestly though the food was pretty decent. When they were adhering to all the COVID guidelines, quality did drop dramatically, but outside of that, I was pretty fond of it

COMMENT: Curriculum-wise I found that some classes felt much harder than high school while many I felt sufficiently prepared for. I’d say the hardest part can be the new class structure, where you’ll need to (presumably) adapt from taking classes all day and doing work at night for the next day, to only having certain classes 2-3 days a week, having more free time, and having less busy work and more larger projects that you’ll need to budget your time for. Some of that took some adjusting for me, but I felt relatively prepared from my high school and I ended up enjoying the system of things

COMMENT: As far as insight goes, just kinda don’t be afraid to go to any event or club meeting. I know I often felt a decent amount of imposter syndrome, but I ended up trying out some clubs that I really enjoyed and became a pretty huge part of my college experience. And most clubs love getting new people, so they’d be excited to show you around, even if you’re still deciding whether you want to be a committed member (time-wise. I don’t think any collect dues above pottery’s $5 or so for materials)

COMMENT: All in all, I really enjoyed my time at Colby but you’ll want to know that Colby is fairly isolated, so people stay on campus a lot but there isn’t around other than some beautiful trails and a handful of restaurants and chain stores. With that in mind, I’d say finding an extra curricular to take part in can have a substantial impact on your enjoyment of the school, as it can provide a friend group, connections to other parts of campus, and something to do when you’re done with school work

COMMENT: Omg! Thank you so much for your thoughtful responses! I was really starting to think Colby was a depressing place, hehe Everything you described sounds perfect!

COMMENT: This place actually sounds like a good fit for me! Besides, I already live in the middle of nowhere, so it can’t be too different 😂 Thank you so much for your insights and advice! I have the hardest time making friends, so I’m really thankful you included so much information on social life! Thank you!

COMMENT: The food being bad is 100% popular opinion. Almost nobody disagrees that the food quality is bad. Wifi being bad depends on building but there are occasions where wifi is universally down. This is not opinion but fact. The only that I would say might be unpopular opinion is the friend group thing. Everything else is genuine objective advice

COMMENT: You mentioned that living in Hillside is hazardous. Did you mean it's because of substances/alchohol? Also, could you please give suggestions on accommodation (which dorm is the best, etc) and weather (is it really that cold?)

COMMENT: Hillside is hazardous not because of substances but the place is literally filthy. People do not wash their hands and black mold has grown inside rooms before. The bathrooms are nasty due to small amount of stalls and urinals and people vommiting without cleaning. Janitors clean once a week so if someone barfs all over the toilet or pisses all over the seat and lets it dry youre better off walking to another bathroom in another building. Sign up for healthy colby or sub free since youll be sebt to dorms that are usually not trashed. The weather here is damn cold. In January everyday was pretty much below 20 at all times and the sun would set at 4pm. It also snows and rains a lot here.

COMMENT: if you don't drink or party at all, will you not fit in?

COMMENT: I'll just sum this up, don't go here. Go anywhere else. The school is rampant with homophobia, transphobia, racism, etc. There are people who've transferred because it was so bad. They force students to live in unsuitable housing and pack us in hotels, doubles turned into triples or quadruples, and temporary housing. They don't have the resources to support the student body but somehow have a major athletic center. It sucks.

COMMENT: Yes. While I've found my niche with friends that don't party/drink occasionally, it's a big social thing. The biggest day of the year, Doghead, is dedicated to getting plastered for 24 hours.

COMMENT: Ive been getting so many negative reviews, I’m honestly starting to reconsider… Is there anything redeeming about the school at all??

COMMENT: Yes, but they aren't worth it. They have good academics, but a lot of other shools do too. And if you are business/econ, you probably can't get into your required classes. And their small class sizes have become quite big, so one of their big selling points is false. Professors are burnt out and since it's small, you are almost required to take multiple classes with the same professor. This isn't terrible, but some tenured professors are quite bad. I got a 31 on a test. That was a B. I didn't learn a think from the class. The food is also, awful. It used to be good, but they have such delights as "peanut butter and jelly chicken wings" and "coffee-encrusted pot roast" which were not good. It seems like everyone has had food poisoning due the food at one point in time. Seriously, the chicken is undercooked and the managers didn't care when I showed them pink chicken. It was "seasoning" but considering the amount of people getting sick, I doubt it. And since the bill isn't itemized, you have to pay for a dining plan unless you are off-campus or co-op for dietary restrictions. And speaking of dietary restrictions, they say they are safe but their "gluten free" items are cross-contaminated (and they have a small section for prepackaged things, but it isn't a varied/healthy diet). They also don't list the ingredients, which is dangerous for people with allergies. The athletics center is state of the art, but you don't need it to get in shape. And also, it's a hassle to get to if you don't live on frat row. The arb is nice for hikes! But during the winter (the majority of semesters) it's hard to travel in. Also people liter and there is only so much you can hike. Lastly, I do like the environment consciousness. It's carbon emissions are net 0, but with all the trash and barriers, we produce a lot of garbage and pollution. So yeah, don't come here. You might like it, but I've heard we are hemorrhaging students and I'd be one of them if I wasn't on full scholarship.
