TITLE: AS231(Introduction to Astrophysics) Review and Advice.
SOURCE: https://www.reddit.com/r/Colby/comments/1dx0v18/
TYPE: reddit_thread
DATE: 2024-07

POST: Hey, guys. I'll be taking the AS231 course this fall and I just wanted to know what to expect, especially the course pace, rigor, and average hours spent on homeworks(both observation, data collection and analysis, and normal paper and pen calculations). To be more precise, the course will be taught by Prof Elizabeth McGrath and I would appreciate it if anyone can tell me what to expect from Prof McGrath, especially as I'll be just a freshman taking this 200-level course. How much programming skill is required, how often do you get assigned programming-related homework? I heard there's something called pruning, does this happen in this course? Also, How much stuff is covered in the course(it looks like a lot)? Please, your opinions will be very crucial in determining whether or not I continue with this course. Thank youuuu!

COMMENT: Id suggest looking at Rate My Professor for this class. I had McGrath while I was at Colby and she is an awesome professor. If you decide to continue with the Astro/Physics program I would definitely recommend her Thermodynamics class on top of other required classes. Pruning in the Physics/Astro program is very rare, I don’t think I actually ever experienced it myself. All the professors in the program are pretty understanding and want to see you succeed in their classes, so they will give you an abundance of resources and feedback to keep you from failing.

COMMENT: I'd email the prof if you haven't already

COMMENT: Hey! I’m an Astro major, so I can definitely help you out here. AS231 is definitely an intro course to astronomy but not to physics, so a strong background in Newtonian mechanics and E&M is helpful. It’s quick and covers a lot of ground but not an absurd amount; for the amount there is to be covered in astronomy AS231 does a really good job of sampling lots of things. There’s a problem set every week that can take anywhere from 1-4 hours, but if you’re stuck TA and Office hours are super helpful in working thru stuff (that goes for all classes). The biggest time commitments are the labs, which is where the most programming work comes in; they’re mostly based on data collection and analysis and you do a lot of learning how to read what the telescope tells you and turn that into photos and graphs. It assumes no programming knowledge however, possibly to a fault as it might get a bit slow if you’re familiar with some CS. Prof. McGrath is SO kind, she definitely knows her stuff and is always willing to help out, she should definitely not be the reason you don’t take the course. This is a ton of info but feel free to DM me if you have any more questions! And if you’re still feeling unsure, the physics dept offers AS151 in the spring that’s a more entry-level astro course with a lighter course load for folks less looking to go into physics or astronomy (and the lab is optional if you’re not feeling that aspect of AS231).
