TITLE: So freshmen have no say on their housing?
SOURCE: https://www.reddit.com/r/Colby/comments/18pfyod/
TYPE: reddit_thread
DATE: 2023-12

POST: Just came across a 2 year old post that says that the only thing you can request is a chem-free dorm. Everything else is just random and other preferences aren't considered at all?

COMMENT: okay so i'm not sure how it works in other colleges (but i would imagine it's similar in other small LACs), but let me break it down about how it works in colby: every year, a number of dorm buildings are assigned to be freshman buildings. out of those, a few are assigned as "substance-free", which are, well, for substance-free students. and, pro tip - if you're not planning to party almost every weekend, better choose sub-free. you can always go to other dorms to party if you feel like it, but you're not gonna stop your next door neighbors from partying just because you're not up to it that particular night; aside from that, you also get a questionnaire about what kind of person you are, so that you get matched with roommates that are similar to you. it works well, based on my experience and the people i know, roughly 60% of the time. if you're not lucky, there's certainly a chance you'll get a roommate that you don't like, or worse, that you're constantly in conflict with; continuing from the previous point, if, for any reason, you don't get along with your roommate, first step is always to mediate the conflict, either personally or through RAs (called CAs in Colby), if it continues to be unresolved, you can request to move elsewhere. it's a bit of a tedious process, but at least it gives you some agency if your roommate is shitty. also note that they might move you to a non-freshman dorm as a result of that, which might be a good or a bad thing to different people; there's also a period near the beginning of each semester, when all the students are done settling in, when a few empty rooms/spots in rooms remain. they're very limited, but any person who wants to move can apply to be settled in those free spots, so if there is any reason at all you'd like to live elsewhere, go for it; and lastly, if you have any physical and/or mental conditions that affect your daily lifestyle, Colby will always accommodate those. depending on the severity of your condition, you might even get higher priority than seniors in choosing your dorm. that, of course, remains true throughout your time here, so you can still get accomodations if you get diagnosed with something later on.

COMMENT: Sounds tight. Thanks a lot for taking the time! As I'm an intl student I might need some time to get used to all that. Btw I'm probably wilding with this but can I find this form that they use to match students, ideally the one Colby uses?

COMMENT: im not sure if it's possible to access it now, but it's just basic things - what are your sleep hours, how tidy you are, how sociable you are, whether you're LGBTQ or an ally, that kind of stuff

COMMENT: Colby won’t always accommodate them, from experience. Maybe if you have one or two minor needs that need meeting. Otherwise, it takes a lot of talking to accommodations and then housing to make sure that your needs are met

COMMENT: idk, all people i know that needed accomodations got them no problem, even with more serious conditions
